# Genealographer

Answer set programming (clingo) code for generating family trees. Currently
runs a multi-stage pipeline (see makefile) and isn't terribly efficient,
sometimes even failing at later stages. You could also try solving jointly,
although that has its own efficiency problems.

## What do?

Run `make viz; open out/viz.pdf` or the equivalent on your system.
Requires `clingo`, Python (3) and `graphviz`. You can also run `make
int/_ftree.lp` or `int/_fages.lp` to create just the tree or just the tree with
ages and skip visualization, which only requires `clingo`.

## Versions

This is `genealographer` version 0.1.

- `clingo` 5.2.0 (`libgringo` 5.2.0 / `libclasp` 3.3.0)
- Python 3.6.2
- `graphviz` version 2.40.1 (20161225.0304)

## Files

- `Makefile`---Contains recipes for running stuff.
- `setup.lp`---Rolls a random (with appropriate options; see `Makefile`) set of
  constraints on stand-out situations. Constants at the top should provide most
  control you'd want. Note that there are probably some unidentified stand-out
  situations...
- `family.lp`---Core relationship generation code. Doesn't deal with ages, but
  creates a family tree structure. This is the first stage (after setup.lp is
  run independently to generate constraints).
- `generations.lp`---Not being used in the default pipeline; prevents
  cross-generation liaisons by assigning each person a unique generation. If
  used, should be run during the same stage as `family.lp`.
- `age.lp`---Code for assigning ages to each person. Currently has some
  efficiency problems related to partner age constraints. Runs as a second
  phase after family.lp, although in principle they could be run together. It
  is currently possible for `family.lp` to spit out a structure that causes
  `age.lp` to return UNSATISFIABLE, but it's not that common (I hope :P).
- `bin/clgv`---Small Python utility for visualizing answer sets using
  `graphviz` by scooping up a small set of predicates. Requires... Python (3)
  and `graphviz`.
